# PDFPal

PDFPal is an AI chatbot that answers questions related to PDF content based on user prompts. It leverages advanced natural language processing techniques to provide accurate and relevant answers from the content of uploaded PDF files.

## Features

- Upload PDF files and interact with the content.
- Ask questions about the PDF, and receive answers generated by an AI model.
- User-friendly interface built with Streamlit.

## Requirements

To run this project, you need to have the following installed:

- Python 3.7 or higher
- Streamlit
- PyPDF2
- Langchain
- dotenv
- langchain-ollama

You can install the required packages using pip:

```bash
pip install streamlit PyPDF2 langchain langchain-ollama python-dotenv
```

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/mahmoudalrefaey/PDFPal-PDF-chatbot
cd PDFPal-PDF-chatbot
```

2. Create a .env file in the root directory of the project and add your API keys:

```
API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

3. Run the application:

```
streamlit run app.py
```

## Usage

1. Open the application: After running the command in the setup step, a new tab will open in your web browser with the PDFPal interface.
2. Upload a PDF file: Use the file uploader to select and upload a PDF file that you want to interact with.
3. Ask questions: In the input box provided, type your questions related to the content of the uploaded PDF.
4. Receive answers: The AI model will process your question and provide an answer based on the content of the PDF.
5. Explore further: You can continue to ask more questions about the same PDF or upload a different PDF to start a new session.

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you have suggestions for improvements or new features, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.
